# Beyond Gender Binary in Class
Respecting and understanding gender identity and expression can help students feeling more welcome in class.

Students experience anxiety, stress or isolation when their pronouns or identities are not respected in the classroom. An editorial for which LGTBQ+ students were interviewed showed that these students, many of whom identified as gender fluid, genderqueer, gender non-conforming, transgender, and/or non-binary, experience a great amount of anxiety and frustration. Several students expressed fear of educators and staff misgendering them or committing other microagressions. Gender identity refers to an individual's internal understanding of their own gender, while gender expression is how they outwardly show their gender through aspects like clothing and behavior. A person's way of expressing gender doesn't always alight directly with their gender identity and students' gender identity are personal and can be fluid. 

How to avoid above situations? Ask students their name and pronoun rather than making assumptions, as one should avoid using gendered pronouns for individuals who have not specifically shared their pronouns with you. After receiving the student's preferred pronouns, you should respect their privacy and only share their gender identity after receiving their consent. Offer your name and pronoun too when introducing yourself. You will model the importance of not making assumptions about pronouns. Besides this, you could substitute gender binary language for more inclusive language such as “everybody,” “people” or “this person”.  


Are you interested in reading more about teaching beyond the gender binary in class? We suggest reading the [full guide by Harbin](https://cft.vanderbilt.edu/guides-sub-pages/teaching-beyond-the-gender-binary-in-the-university-classroom/). 