# Gendered names in cryptography

When you know something about cryptography, you have probably heard of Alice and Bob. But do you know that using these names might disadvantage female students?

In cryptography, names are often used to represent users and different ways of attack strategies. The best known are Alice and Bob. The list extends to a lot more characters. Medel and Pournaghshband looked at the (associable) gender of the characters based on their names and whether characters have a positive or negative connotation. They concluded that cryptographic protocols include more female than male characters. However, less than 13% of these female characters are doing something 'good' while this holds up for 50% of the male characters. This suggests that there is a gender bias beyond gender representation.

What can we do about this? Medel and Pournaghshband suggest using animals instead of human characters. This gives the additional benefit of animals being associated with stereotypical traits, that can be utilized. Moreover, these traits are often universal in different cultures.*"For example, we replace Eve the ‘eavesdropper’ with an owl who ‘watches,’ and Sybil, who assumes numerous forged identities to launch this form of attack, with a chameleon that changes colors and assumes varying identities. Mallory, the perpetrator in man-in-themiddle attacks, is replaced with a sneaky snake."* Testing this adjustment in a pilot, resulted in an improvement for female students' confidence while male confidence did not change. 
If you want to continue using names, consider changing the names such that both the representation and connotation is balanced, replacing some or all names by gender-neutral names, and replacing some names to non-Western names. 

Do you want to read more about biases in Computer Science materials? Then we suggest to read the [full paper by Medel and Pournaghshband](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3017680.3017794).